README.md, before:

# Campfire

## Syncing Metadata from Google Sheets

This project includes a utility script `sync.js` that copies ad metadata from a
Google Sheet into Firestore.

### Setup

1. Install dependencies (Firebase Admin SDK and Google APIs):
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
2. Provide a Firebase service account key and set the environment variable
   `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` to its path. The storage bucket can be
   overridden with `FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET`.
3. Run the script:
   ```bash
   npm run sync
   ```

The script reads the `sheetId` field from each document in the `adGroups`
collection, loads rows from the `Recipes` tab, and writes metadata documents
under `adGroups/{groupId}/recipes/{recipeId}`. Metadata is matched using the
**Recipe Number** column and stored in a `metadata` subfield containing
`offer`, `audience`, and `angle`. Column positions are detected dynamically so
the sheet may reorder them without breaking the sync.

The values in the Recipe Number column should match the recipe identifiers
(e.g., `Recipe 1`, `Recipe 2`) used in Firestore.


## Environment Variables

The React application reads Firebase configuration values from Vite's
environment. Copy the provided `.env.example` to `.env` and fill in the
values for your project:

```bash
VITE_FIREBASE_API_KEY=your-api-key
VITE_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN=your-auth-domain
VITE_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=your-project-id
VITE_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET=your-storage-bucket
VITE_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID=your-sender-id
VITE_FIREBASE_APP_ID=your-app-id
VITE_FIREBASE_VAPID_KEY=your-vapid-key
VITE_OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-key
```

These values correspond to your Firebase project's configuration. Vite will load
them automatically when running `npm run dev` or `npm run build`.

Because the messaging demo scripts in `public/` are served without bundling,
`index.html` exposes these variables on `window.FIREBASE_CONFIG`. Ensure your
`.env` file is populated so the service worker and `public/main.js` receive a
valid API key.

The `sync.js` utility also reads `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` and
`FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET` from the environment. If you use a `.env` file, include
those variables as well so `npm run sync` can locate your service account key and
bucket.

## Deploying to Vercel

When hosting on Vercel the application runs entirely in the browser. Client-side
routes therefore need a rewrite so any URL renders the app's `index.html`.
Create a `vercel.json` file with the following contents:

```json
{
  "rewrites": [{ "source": "/(.*)", "destination": "/index.html" }]
}
```

Without this rule Vercel would serve 404 pages for client-side routes. The
rewrite ensures navigation works correctly.

## Deploying Cloud Functions

The `functions` folder contains a Cloud Function triggered by `storage.object.finalize` that converts uploaded PNGs to WebP and creates a small thumbnail. Deploy the function with the Firebase CLI:

```bash
cd functions
npm install
firebase deploy --only functions
```
Verify that `@google-cloud/storage` is listed in `functions/package.json` and
that your functions are exported by name in `index.js`. After deployment run:

```bash
firebase functions:list
```

to confirm the functions appear in your project.


## Admin Account Management

Visit `/admin/accounts` to view all user accounts. Admins can edit the audience,
role, or brand codes directly in the table and delete accounts when necessary. To create
a new account use `/admin/accounts/new`, which opens the original creation
form. The form calls `createUserWithEmailAndPassword` and then writes a user
document to Firestore. Both operations are wrapped in a `try/catch` block. If
either step fails the error message is shown so the admin can correct the input
and retry.


## Setting Admin Custom Claims

After creating an admin user you need to assign the `admin` custom claim so the application recognizes the account as an administrator. Run the provided `setAdminClaim.js` script with the user's UID:

```bash
node setAdminClaim.js <uid>
```

The script loads your service account credentials from the `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` environment variable (it also reads variables from `.env` if present). Once executed, the specified user will have `{ admin: true }` in their custom claims. You can verify this in the Firebase console or by fetching the user record with the Admin SDK.

## Setting Manager Custom Claims

Managers require a custom claim similar to admins. After creating the Firebase account run the `setManagerClaim.js` helper with the UID:

```bash
node setManagerClaim.js <uid>
```
This adds `{ manager: true }` to the user's custom claims. Because security rules rely on these claims, avoid storing the manager role only in Firestore user profiles.
Managers should also complete multi-factor authentication just like other roles to reduce account takeover risk.

The repository now includes a Cloud Function that monitors the `users` collection. Whenever a user document has `role` (or `userType`) set to `manager`, the function automatically updates the account's custom claims to include `{ manager: true }`. Removing the role will clear the claim.

## Admin Brand Management

Similarly, `/admin/brands` lists all brands with inline edit and delete
controls. Selecting **Edit** on a brand row opens the brand profile page,
allowing administrators to update brand assets. New brands can be added via
`/admin/brands/new`.

## Authentication

The project uses Firebase Authentication for admin access. The `Login` component
found in `src/Login.jsx` calls `signInWithEmailAndPassword` when the form is
submitted:

```jsx
import { signInWithEmailAndPassword } from 'firebase/auth';
import { auth } from './firebase/config';

await signInWithEmailAndPassword(auth, email, password);
```

Account creation occurs through `AdminAccountForm` which creates the Firebase
user and stores metadata in Firestore:

```jsx
import { createUserWithEmailAndPassword } from 'firebase/auth';
import { doc, setDoc } from 'firebase/firestore';
import { auth, db } from './firebase/config';

const cred = await createUserWithEmailAndPassword(auth, email, password);
await setDoc(doc(db, 'users', cred.user.uid), {
  role,
  audience: role,
  brandCodes: codes,
});
```

Newly created accounts will automatically receive a verification email. They
must verify their address before they can enroll multi-factor authentication.

End users can self-register at `/signup`. The page collects basic information,
creates the Firebase account. Selecting "Agency" also creates a new `agencies`
document and stores the generated `agencyId` on the user record, while
selecting "Brand" results in a `client` role. All new accounts automatically
receive a verification email and are then directed to MFA enrollment.

Users can sign out from the sidebar. `AdminSidebar` exposes a logout button that
simply calls `signOut`:

```jsx
import { signOut } from 'firebase/auth';
import { auth } from './firebase/config';

signOut(auth);
```

If a login attempt fails because of an incorrect password, the sign-in form will
offer a **Forgot password?** link. Selecting it triggers
`sendPasswordResetEmail` so the user can regain access. A confirmation message
displays once the email is sent.

Admin, client, and manager accounts must enroll a second factor. After signing in,
the app checks `multiFactor.enrolledFactors` for the user and redirects to
`/mfa-settings` if no factors are present. The enrollment screen sends an SMS
verification code and completes `multiFactor().enroll()` once confirmed.
Phone numbers entered on this screen are sanitized to the E.164 format.
Users should include their own country code, e.g. typing `+441234567890`
will remain `+441234567890` in the field.

## Running Tests

Use Jest to run unit tests for React components. Install dependencies and run:

```bash
npm install
npm test
```

## Safe Firestore Updates

Firestore snapshots include `createTime`, `updateTime`, and `readTime` fields
that cannot be written back with `updateDoc`. The helper at
`src/utils/safeUpdateDoc.js` removes these keys before updating:

```javascript
import { doc } from 'firebase/firestore';
import { db } from './firebase/config';
import { safeUpdateDoc } from './src/utils/safeUpdateDoc';

  await safeUpdateDoc(doc(db, 'example', id), {
    name: 'Updated',
    updateTime: 'ignored',
  });
  ```

## Table Component and Action Buttons

Admin screens share a simple `Table` component located at
`src/components/common/Table.jsx`. Wrap your headers and rows with `<Table>`
so they receive the standard scrolling container and `ad-table` classes:

```jsx
import Table from './components/common/Table';

<Table>
  <thead>{/* columns */}</thead>
  <tbody>{/* rows */}</tbody>
</Table>
```

Small icon buttons now use the `.btn-action` class. This applies compact
padding and an inline icon layout. Individual `px-1.5`, `py-0.5`, and `text-xs`
overrides are no longer needed:

```jsx
<button className="btn-action">
  <FiEdit2 />
  <span>Edit</span>
</button>
```

### Button Types

All button styles are defined in [src/global.css](src/global.css). Use these
classes for consistent actions:

- `.btn-primary` – main action buttons (submit, save)
- `.btn-secondary` – secondary or neutral actions
- `.btn-action` – compact icon buttons
- `.btn-approve`, `.btn-reject`, `.btn-edit`, `.btn-delete` – specialized
  review or destructive actions

Adjust colors or sizes by editing `src/global.css`.

## Theme Customization

Dark mode colors are defined in `src/global.css`. The `:root` section exposes CSS
variables so you can tweak the palette:

```css
:root {
  --accent-color: #ea580c;
  --accent-color-10: rgba(234, 88, 12, 0.1);
  --dark-bg: #0d1116;
  --dark-text: #f3f4f6;
  --dark-sidebar-bg: #1f2937;
  --dark-sidebar-hover: #374151;
}
```

Update these values to change the site's dark theme without editing the markup.

## File and Logo Uploads

Assets uploaded through `uploadFile` and `uploadLogo` now include caching
metadata so browsers can store them for one year. Both functions call
`uploadBytes` with:

```javascript
{ cacheControl: 'public,max-age=31536000,immutable' }
```

which sets the appropriate `Cache-Control` header on the stored file.

## Simple Ad Review Flow

The `SimpleReview` component (`src/SimpleReview.jsx`) renders ads with minimal overhead. It preloads the next few images in memory (by default five) and only keeps a single image element in the DOM. Transitions are plain fade animations and no cache-busting query parameters are added to ad URLs.

```jsx
import SimpleReview from './src/SimpleReview.jsx';

const ads = ['https://example.com/ad1.png', 'https://example.com/ad2.png'];

<SimpleReview ads={ads} />;
```

## Password Protected Review Links

Ad group review links can be secured with a password. When sharing a link from
the dashboard a random 12 character password is generated and stored on the ad
group document. Reviewers must enter this password the first time they open the
link. After a successful entry the password is saved in `localStorage` so future
visits skip the prompt.


## Ad Recipe Setup

The [Ad Recipe Setup](docs/ad-recipe-setup.md) tab lets administrators define the form shown to users when creating a recipe. Inputs can include free-text fields and predefined components. Submitted options are matched together to produce the final ad recipe. The result is added to a table with columns for component values, copy, and the recipe number (table columns: component values, copy, recipe number).

### Asset Type Normalization

When uploading an asset CSV you may include an optional `assetType` column. The
application normalizes this value to simplify filtering. Values are matched
case-insensitively and common synonyms map to a canonical type. The words
`still`, `image`, `static`, `img`, `picture`, and `photo` are all stored as
`image`. The terms `video`, `motion`, `animated`, and `gif` become `video`.
Any unrecognized value is simply lowercased.

You can also populate assets directly from the in-app **Asset Library**. Click
the **Use Library** button in the recipe generator and the stored rows will be
loaded with all columns mapped automatically.

## Notification Automation

Administrators can configure notification rules under `/admin/notifications`.
Rules specify a trigger (`adGroupCreated`, `adGroupStatusUpdated`, or
`accountCreated`), a target audience and message templates. Placeholders like
`{{brandCode}}` or `{{status}}` are replaced with values from the event that
fired. When a rule matches, a notification document is created which causes the
`sendNotification` Cloud Function to distribute the message via FCM.

Notifications triggered by `adGroupCreated` or `adGroupStatusUpdated` now include a `url` field that points to the related ad group. The Designer notification UI uses this to make the message clickable so users can jump directly to the group details.

If a rule outputs a `brandCode` value, only users with that code in their `brandCodes` array will receive the notification.

Commit message:

Load brand asset library from Firestore

README.md, after:

# Campfire

## Syncing Metadata from Google Sheets

This project includes a utility script `sync.js` that copies ad metadata from a
Google Sheet into Firestore.

### Setup

1. Install dependencies (Firebase Admin SDK and Google APIs):
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
2. Provide a Firebase service account key and set the environment variable
   `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` to its path. The storage bucket can be
   overridden with `FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET`.
3. Run the script:
   ```bash
   npm run sync
   ```

The script reads the `sheetId` field from each document in the `adGroups`
collection, loads rows from the `Recipes` tab, and writes metadata documents
under `adGroups/{groupId}/recipes/{recipeId}`. Metadata is matched using the
**Recipe Number** column and stored in a `metadata` subfield containing
`offer`, `audience`, and `angle`. Column positions are detected dynamically so
the sheet may reorder them without breaking the sync.

The values in the Recipe Number column should match the recipe identifiers
(e.g., `Recipe 1`, `Recipe 2`) used in Firestore.


## Environment Variables

The React application reads Firebase configuration values from Vite's
environment. Copy the provided `.env.example` to `.env` and fill in the
values for your project:

```bash
VITE_FIREBASE_API_KEY=your-api-key
VITE_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN=your-auth-domain
VITE_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=your-project-id
VITE_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET=your-storage-bucket
VITE_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID=your-sender-id
VITE_FIREBASE_APP_ID=your-app-id
VITE_FIREBASE_VAPID_KEY=your-vapid-key
VITE_OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-key
```

These values correspond to your Firebase project's configuration. Vite will load
them automatically when running `npm run dev` or `npm run build`.

Because the messaging demo scripts in `public/` are served without bundling,
`index.html` exposes these variables on `window.FIREBASE_CONFIG`. Ensure your
`.env` file is populated so the service worker and `public/main.js` receive a
valid API key.

The `sync.js` utility also reads `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` and
`FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET` from the environment. If you use a `.env` file, include
those variables as well so `npm run sync` can locate your service account key and
bucket.

## Deploying to Vercel

When hosting on Vercel the application runs entirely in the browser. Client-side
routes therefore need a rewrite so any URL renders the app's `index.html`.
Create a `vercel.json` file with the following contents:

```json
{
  "rewrites": [{ "source": "/(.*)", "destination": "/index.html" }]
}
```

Without this rule Vercel would serve 404 pages for client-side routes. The
rewrite ensures navigation works correctly.

## Deploying Cloud Functions

The `functions` folder contains a Cloud Function triggered by `storage.object.finalize` that converts uploaded PNGs to WebP and creates a small thumbnail. Deploy the function with the Firebase CLI:

```bash
cd functions
npm install
firebase deploy --only functions
```
Verify that `@google-cloud/storage` is listed in `functions/package.json` and
that your functions are exported by name in `index.js`. After deployment run:

```bash
firebase functions:list
```

to confirm the functions appear in your project.


## Admin Account Management

Visit `/admin/accounts` to view all user accounts. Admins can edit the audience,
role, or brand codes directly in the table and delete accounts when necessary. To create
a new account use `/admin/accounts/new`, which opens the original creation
form. The form calls `createUserWithEmailAndPassword` and then writes a user
document to Firestore. Both operations are wrapped in a `try/catch` block. If
either step fails the error message is shown so the admin can correct the input
and retry.


## Setting Admin Custom Claims

After creating an admin user you need to assign the `admin` custom claim so the application recognizes the account as an administrator. Run the provided `setAdminClaim.js` script with the user's UID:

```bash
node setAdminClaim.js <uid>
```

The script loads your service account credentials from the `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` environment variable (it also reads variables from `.env` if present). Once executed, the specified user will have `{ admin: true }` in their custom claims. You can verify this in the Firebase console or by fetching the user record with the Admin SDK.

## Setting Manager Custom Claims

Managers require a custom claim similar to admins. After creating the Firebase account run the `setManagerClaim.js` helper with the UID:

```bash
node setManagerClaim.js <uid>
```
This adds `{ manager: true }` to the user's custom claims. Because security rules rely on these claims, avoid storing the manager role only in Firestore user profiles.
Managers should also complete multi-factor authentication just like other roles to reduce account takeover risk.

The repository now includes a Cloud Function that monitors the `users` collection. Whenever a user document has `role` (or `userType`) set to `manager`, the function automatically updates the account's custom claims to include `{ manager: true }`. Removing the role will clear the claim.

## Admin Brand Management

Similarly, `/admin/brands` lists all brands with inline edit and delete
controls. Selecting **Edit** on a brand row opens the brand profile page,
allowing administrators to update brand assets. New brands can be added via
`/admin/brands/new`.

## Authentication

The project uses Firebase Authentication for admin access. The `Login` component
found in `src/Login.jsx` calls `signInWithEmailAndPassword` when the form is
submitted:

```jsx
import { signInWithEmailAndPassword } from 'firebase/auth';
import { auth } from './firebase/config';

await signInWithEmailAndPassword(auth, email, password);
```

Account creation occurs through `AdminAccountForm` which creates the Firebase
user and stores metadata in Firestore:

```jsx
import { createUserWithEmailAndPassword } from 'firebase/auth';
import { doc, setDoc } from 'firebase/firestore';
import { auth, db } from './firebase/config';

const cred = await createUserWithEmailAndPassword(auth, email, password);
await setDoc(doc(db, 'users', cred.user.uid), {
  role,
  audience: role,
  brandCodes: codes,
});
```

Newly created accounts will automatically receive a verification email. They
must verify their address before they can enroll multi-factor authentication.

End users can self-register at `/signup`. The page collects basic information,
creates the Firebase account. Selecting "Agency" also creates a new `agencies`
document and stores the generated `agencyId` on the user record, while
selecting "Brand" results in a `client` role. All new accounts automatically
receive a verification email and are then directed to MFA enrollment.

Users can sign out from the sidebar. `AdminSidebar` exposes a logout button that
simply calls `signOut`:

```jsx
import { signOut } from 'firebase/auth';
import { auth } from './firebase/config';

signOut(auth);
```

If a login attempt fails because of an incorrect password, the sign-in form will
offer a **Forgot password?** link. Selecting it triggers
`sendPasswordResetEmail` so the user can regain access. A confirmation message
displays once the email is sent.

Admin, client, and manager accounts must enroll a second factor. After signing in,
the app checks `multiFactor.enrolledFactors` for the user and redirects to
`/mfa-settings` if no factors are present. The enrollment screen sends an SMS
verification code and completes `multiFactor().enroll()` once confirmed.
Phone numbers entered on this screen are sanitized to the E.164 format.
Users should include their own country code, e.g. typing `+441234567890`
will remain `+441234567890` in the field.

## Running Tests

Use Jest to run unit tests for React components. Install dependencies and run:

```bash
npm install
npm test
```

## Safe Firestore Updates

Firestore snapshots include `createTime`, `updateTime`, and `readTime` fields
that cannot be written back with `updateDoc`. The helper at
`src/utils/safeUpdateDoc.js` removes these keys before updating:

```javascript
import { doc } from 'firebase/firestore';
import { db } from './firebase/config';
import { safeUpdateDoc } from './src/utils/safeUpdateDoc';

  await safeUpdateDoc(doc(db, 'example', id), {
    name: 'Updated',
    updateTime: 'ignored',
  });
  ```

## Table Component and Action Buttons

Admin screens share a simple `Table` component located at
`src/components/common/Table.jsx`. Wrap your headers and rows with `<Table>`
so they receive the standard scrolling container and `ad-table` classes:

```jsx
import Table from './components/common/Table';

<Table>
  <thead>{/* columns */}</thead>
  <tbody>{/* rows */}</tbody>
</Table>
```

Small icon buttons now use the `.btn-action` class. This applies compact
padding and an inline icon layout. Individual `px-1.5`, `py-0.5`, and `text-xs`
overrides are no longer needed:

```jsx
<button className="btn-action">
  <FiEdit2 />
  <span>Edit</span>
</button>
```

### Button Types

All button styles are defined in [src/global.css](src/global.css). Use these
classes for consistent actions:

- `.btn-primary` – main action buttons (submit, save)
- `.btn-secondary` – secondary or neutral actions
- `.btn-action` – compact icon buttons
- `.btn-approve`, `.btn-reject`, `.btn-edit`, `.btn-delete` – specialized
  review or destructive actions

Adjust colors or sizes by editing `src/global.css`.

## Theme Customization

Dark mode colors are defined in `src/global.css`. The `:root` section exposes CSS
variables so you can tweak the palette:

```css
:root {
  --accent-color: #ea580c;
  --accent-color-10: rgba(234, 88, 12, 0.1);
  --dark-bg: #0d1116;
  --dark-text: #f3f4f6;
  --dark-sidebar-bg: #1f2937;
  --dark-sidebar-hover: #374151;
}
```

Update these values to change the site's dark theme without editing the markup.

## File and Logo Uploads

Assets uploaded through `uploadFile` and `uploadLogo` now include caching
metadata so browsers can store them for one year. Both functions call
`uploadBytes` with:

```javascript
{ cacheControl: 'public,max-age=31536000,immutable' }
```

which sets the appropriate `Cache-Control` header on the stored file.

## Simple Ad Review Flow

The `SimpleReview` component (`src/SimpleReview.jsx`) renders ads with minimal overhead. It preloads the next few images in memory (by default five) and only keeps a single image element in the DOM. Transitions are plain fade animations and no cache-busting query parameters are added to ad URLs.

```jsx
import SimpleReview from './src/SimpleReview.jsx';

const ads = ['https://example.com/ad1.png', 'https://example.com/ad2.png'];

<SimpleReview ads={ads} />;
```

## Password Protected Review Links

Ad group review links can be secured with a password. When sharing a link from
the dashboard a random 12 character password is generated and stored on the ad
group document. Reviewers must enter this password the first time they open the
link. After a successful entry the password is saved in `localStorage` so future
visits skip the prompt.


## Ad Recipe Setup

The [Ad Recipe Setup](docs/ad-recipe-setup.md) tab lets administrators define the form shown to users when creating a recipe. Inputs can include free-text fields and predefined components. Submitted options are matched together to produce the final ad recipe. The result is added to a table with columns for component values, copy, and the recipe number (table columns: component values, copy, recipe number).

### Asset Type Normalization

When uploading an asset CSV you may include an optional `assetType` column. The
application normalizes this value to simplify filtering. Values are matched
case-insensitively and common synonyms map to a canonical type. The words
`still`, `image`, `static`, `img`, `picture`, and `photo` are all stored as
`image`. The terms `video`, `motion`, `animated`, and `gif` become `video`.
Any unrecognized value is simply lowercased.

You can also populate assets directly from the in-app **Asset Library**. Click
the **Use Library** button in the recipe generator and the stored rows will be
loaded with all columns mapped automatically.

Saving the library writes the assets to Firestore so they are available from any
browser or device. Unsaved changes remain in `localStorage` until you press the
Save button.

## Notification Automation

Administrators can configure notification rules under `/admin/notifications`.
Rules specify a trigger (`adGroupCreated`, `adGroupStatusUpdated`, or
`accountCreated`), a target audience and message templates. Placeholders like
`{{brandCode}}` or `{{status}}` are replaced with values from the event that
fired. When a rule matches, a notification document is created which causes the
`sendNotification` Cloud Function to distribute the message via FCM.

Notifications triggered by `adGroupCreated` or `adGroupStatusUpdated` now include a `url` field that points to the related ad group. The Designer notification UI uses this to make the message clickable so users can jump directly to the group details.

If a rule outputs a `brandCode` value, only users with that code in their `brandCodes` array will receive the notification.
