docs/ad-recipe-setup.md, before:

# Ad Recipe Setup

## Overview
The Ad Recipe Setup tab controls the configuration for ad instructions and briefings. Recipes appear as rows in a table, with each row representing a single recipe.

## User Input
Recipes are assembled from values that users provide through a form. Inputs can be free text or predefined **components**. Recipe types may also declare **write-in fields** for information like "angle" or "audience" that should not be restricted to predefined options.

Each component is comprised of one or more **attributes** which define the fields in the form (text, number, textarea or image). Components can also have named **instances**. An instance stores values for all of the component's attributes—for example the `audience` component could have an instance called "young adults" that provides the age range and interests. When a recipe is generated the selected instances are substituted into the GPT prompt.

Components also define a `selectionMode` that controls how an instance is chosen when generating a recipe:

- **`random`** – one instance is randomly selected for each recipe.
- **`dropdown`** – the user chooses a single instance from a dropdown.
- **`checklist`** – the user may pick multiple instances which are either used as-is or randomly sampled.

The chosen mode determines how components contribute their values to the final recipe.

Write-in fields are simpler than components. Each field specifies a `label`, `key`, and `inputType` (text, number, textarea, image or **list**). When `list` is chosen the user may enter multiple values and one will be selected at random during generation. Values are inserted into the GPT prompt using `{{key}}` placeholders.

## Output
The system intelligently matches the chosen options to generate an ad recipe. The resulting recipe is displayed in the table.

## Recipe Table
Generated recipes appear as rows in a table. The table columns list the chosen component values, the generated copy, and the ad recipe number. This structure lets you scan component selections alongside the resulting text.

## Recipe Type Tab
The Recipe Type tab lets an admin define:
- The form layout presented to the user.
- The message that is sent to chat when the recipe is generated.
- The order in which components and chat output appear in each recipe row.

When creating a type, list the component keys in the desired order separated by
commas (e.g. `headline,cta,image`). These keys correspond to components defined
in the **Components** tab.

### GPT Prompt

Each recipe type stores a GPT prompt that is sent to the language model when a
recipe is generated. Use double curly braces to reference component values
inside the prompt. For example:

```
Write a headline for {{product}} that highlights {{feature}}.
```

During generation the placeholders will be replaced with the user's input for
the matching components.

The generation feature uses OpenAI's ChatGPT API. Provide your API key via the
`VITE_OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable so the preview can send requests to
the language model.

### Asset Prompt

Optionally provide an **Asset Prompt** string to control how values feed the
asset search UI. The prompt may reference component keys using `{{key}}`
placeholders (e.g. `{{audience}} {{offer}}`). This mapping lets the system know
which component values should be combined into search terms when looking for
existing assets.

## Firestore Rules

Admins must be able to read and write recipe configuration data. Ensure your
`firestore.rules` file includes collections for `recipeTypes` and
`componentTypes` and `componentInstances` with write access restricted to administrators:

```
match /recipeTypes/{docId} {
  allow read: if true;
  allow write: if isAdmin();
}

match /componentTypes/{docId} {
  allow read: if true;
  allow write: if isAdmin();
}

match /componentInstances/{docId} {
  allow read: if true;
  allow write: if isAdmin();
}
```

Commit message:

Use CSV imageUrl for recipe preview

docs/ad-recipe-setup.md, after:

# Ad Recipe Setup

## Overview
The Ad Recipe Setup tab controls the configuration for ad instructions and briefings. Recipes appear as rows in a table, with each row representing a single recipe.

## User Input
Recipes are assembled from values that users provide through a form. Inputs can be free text or predefined **components**. Recipe types may also declare **write-in fields** for information like "angle" or "audience" that should not be restricted to predefined options.

Each component is comprised of one or more **attributes** which define the fields in the form (text, number, textarea or image). Components can also have named **instances**. An instance stores values for all of the component's attributes—for example the `audience` component could have an instance called "young adults" that provides the age range and interests. When a recipe is generated the selected instances are substituted into the GPT prompt.

Components also define a `selectionMode` that controls how an instance is chosen when generating a recipe:

- **`random`** – one instance is randomly selected for each recipe.
- **`dropdown`** – the user chooses a single instance from a dropdown.
- **`checklist`** – the user may pick multiple instances which are either used as-is or randomly sampled.

The chosen mode determines how components contribute their values to the final recipe.

Write-in fields are simpler than components. Each field specifies a `label`, `key`, and `inputType` (text, number, textarea, image or **list**). When `list` is chosen the user may enter multiple values and one will be selected at random during generation. Values are inserted into the GPT prompt using `{{key}}` placeholders.

## Output
The system intelligently matches the chosen options to generate an ad recipe. The resulting recipe is displayed in the table.

## Recipe Table
Generated recipes appear as rows in a table. The table columns list the chosen component values, the generated copy, and the ad recipe number. This structure lets you scan component selections alongside the resulting text.

## Recipe Type Tab
The Recipe Type tab lets an admin define:
- The form layout presented to the user.
- The message that is sent to chat when the recipe is generated.
- The order in which components and chat output appear in each recipe row.

When creating a type, list the component keys in the desired order separated by
commas (e.g. `headline,cta,image`). These keys correspond to components defined
in the **Components** tab.

### GPT Prompt

Each recipe type stores a GPT prompt that is sent to the language model when a
recipe is generated. Use double curly braces to reference component values
inside the prompt. For example:

```
Write a headline for {{product}} that highlights {{feature}}.
```

During generation the placeholders will be replaced with the user's input for
the matching components.

The generation feature uses OpenAI's ChatGPT API. Provide your API key via the
`VITE_OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable so the preview can send requests to
the language model.

### Asset Prompt

Optionally provide an **Asset Prompt** string to control how values feed the
asset search UI. The prompt may reference component keys using `{{key}}`
placeholders (e.g. `{{audience}} {{offer}}`). This mapping lets the system know
which component values should be combined into search terms when looking for
existing assets.

If your CSV includes an `imageUrl` column, the preview uses that URL as the
asset for the generated recipe. In this case no lookup is performed against
Firestore, so each row can reference unique images directly from the uploaded
file.

## Firestore Rules

Admins must be able to read and write recipe configuration data. Ensure your
`firestore.rules` file includes collections for `recipeTypes` and
`componentTypes` and `componentInstances` with write access restricted to administrators:

```
match /recipeTypes/{docId} {
  allow read: if true;
  allow write: if isAdmin();
}

match /componentTypes/{docId} {
  allow read: if true;
  allow write: if isAdmin();
}

match /componentInstances/{docId} {
  allow read: if true;
  allow write: if isAdmin();
}
```
